Like I said we are gonna continue
working on this sidebar here and
getting it as close if not exactly
the same as this design here.
So let's get started and
again you have this link so
you should be able to reference
this design as closely as possible.
But obviously I'm gonna
be walking through it and
kinda narrating my thoughts
the whole time like I've been doing.
So let's hop into it.
And actually the first thing I'm
gonna do cuz it's just annoying me is
I'm just gonna just clean out this
homepage inside of pages index.tsx.
It's just distracting.
I mean, it's really cool that
we get this but I don't need it.
So I'm just gonna put
a div here that says home.
And just that way it's clear
we have a blank slate.
It's not in the way.
We don't need that code again, that was
generated when we did next create app.
It's not code that we wrote.
I'm just gonna get rid of it.
So that way when I go back and
check the sidebar in the browser,
I can actually focus on the sidebar,
not all the stuff that got generated so,
you can put whatever you want there.
I'm just gonna clean it out.
And then the next thing I'm gonna do
is we're gonna make a new component.
And I'm just gonna call it sidebar.
So let's do that.
File called sidebar.tsx.
And this is gonna be
a pretty big component.
Typically I think what I would probably do
is break it up to even smaller components.
But for the sake of time and not trying to
have 30 components all over this app we're
just gonna put everything in the small
component and capsulate it that way.
So if you feel like hey it's got
its components getting pretty big
yeah I'm with you on that just
trying to save some time time here.
So I'm just gonna make
a sidebar component here.
And notice if you've used react lately
that you typically I guess unless you use
the latest version rack but typically you
have to import React at the top so it's in
scope so that the parser, the JSX parser
can use the JSX pragma provided by React
to parser JSX or in the latest version of
React, you don't have to do that anymore.
And actually yes,
use the latest version of React.
So you notice I haven't imported
React at the top of a page of JSX.
That's why you don't have to do
it anymore in the latest version.
So if you do import it
it's not gonna break.
It's totally fine, but
you can also make your own JSX parser and
parse it yourself which is really crazy
that's the thing You should look into it.
In fact I think that's what the SX
property all the components use.
They use their own parser and
add it so it's pretty cool.
Anyway getting sidetracked I could talk
about crazy stuff like that all day so
to export this sidebar and
I'm just gonna return thing that says.
A div that says hello from sidebar.
And typically, I always like to just
hello world all my components first and
get them rendered on the page to
make sure that it's hooked up right.
And then I go back and make them work cuz
One thing I hate doing is like you put all
this work into a component and then you
go test it out and doesn't even show up.
And now it's like well
why is it not showing up?
Is it cuz I didn't hook it up right Is
there something wrong in my component.
So I kinda just like to get that stuff
out of the way first and then go back and
fix it and that way you can also see it
in the browser as you're developing and
you can go from there.
I think it's pretty hard to develop
a UI without actually looking at
it unless you're just a god.
She's just that good, I prefer to look
at my components as I'm building them.
So we have our sidebar here or go back to
our player layout and I'm gonna import
my sidebar here I should be able to
type in sidebar and get a Autocomplete.
There we go.
And right here where I have
the sidebar word are gonna
replace with the sidebar
component like that.
So now that I have that I'm
gonna go check it out and
you can see right there
hello from sidebar.
We got home on the right and we got
player at the bottom exactly the way it
should be all things in
the universe are correct.
So let's work on this sidebar.
It's gonna be a couple
things that we need to do.
Chakra UI has this really sweet thing
that we're gonna use, it's called a list.
If you go look at it, you can see it's
pretty much exactly what we want out of
a menu I mean, at the end of the day,
it's just a glorified UL or OL.
But again, we get to style it and
do some crazy stuff.
So we're gonna be using the list here,
which has like, you have a list and
you have like a list item.
You got all this crazy stuff.
You can add icons to them.
You can see right here,
you can add icons to them.
So we'll be taking advantage of this
whole list components feature that
chakra has and that's what we'll be using.
So I'm gonna head back to our code,
and I'm gonna import some of those.
So I'm gonna import from chakra UI
layout ,so at chakra UI layouts and
the things that I want here are gonna
be Release box cuz that's our div.
Muscle go use list, list item, list icon.
There we go.
And then we also wanna do a divider,
which is exactly what it sounds like.
It's just like a line that
sits in the middle nowhere.
We're gonna do that to divide
cuz if we go back to our design,
you can see there's like
a little divider right here.
You can barely see it.
Zoom out a little bit.
It's right there.
See that the only shows up there,
but there's a divider there.
It's barely there, but it's there.
So we're gonna get the divider.
They have this other sweet component
called center, which centers things.
I can't tell you how many times
I've had gotten on Google and
look up how to center something to CSS.
And I clicked on the same
article every time.
It's the one from, yes,
CSS tricks and they show you,
do you know the size of it, yes, go here.
Do you know the vertical?
I've looked at that article for the last
six years cuz I just don't remember how to
center stuff, Well,
now this component just does it for me.
It's like that article in a component.
So it's perfect.
So I'm gonna use the center component.
There's a thing called link box.
This is actually cool.
We'll talk about that a little bit.
And the one that works with
is called link overlay.
Those two components basically allow
us to make a click target which is
basically a word but have a bigger surface
which is the size of a hole link item.
If you ever had to do that manually it's
kinda annoying to like get this whole
thing to work, this just does it for
you so it's really cool so
we'll be doing that from Layouts.
And then we're gonna have a couple
components that we're gonna use as icons.
So we're gonna import those as well.
So we're gonna import from this really
cool library called react icons that you
also have installed.
And you can go look at their website.
In fact, I'll just pull it up right quick.
It's literally the only Live
that I use for icons and
react like there's nothing better.
It's all free.
And they pretty much went and found every
icon pack that you've ever heard of, and
turn them into components.
And you get them all here as imports.
And every like UI live has like adopted
the functionality to consume these so
they pretty much work with
every UI live Lead too.
So it's really cool, instead of before
this you would have to go to each
individual, one of these websites and
get the icons.
Now they're just all here.
It's really cool, so
we'll be using some of these,
feel free to play around with that.
And the ones that we want are gonna come
from the MD which is material design, so
we're using some of
the material design icons here.
And we're gonna do MD home,
which is the home icon.
We're also gonna do indie
search the other ones
we're gonna use is in the Music Library.
I mean it's getting really specific here.
It's like they knew I was coming.
[LAUGH] Music or is it music?
MD Library Music.
There we go.
Library Music, and then we're also
gonna do Md Playlist ahead, like,
can't make this up, they already had it.
And the last one is Md Favorite.
And the reason I know I needed all these
icons cuz again, if we go back and
look at the design, that's all
the icons here, there's a home icon,
there's a search icon.
There's just like book one.
There's the ad one.
There's the favorite one.
That's where I got all
of those icons from,
all five of these icons were
cuz that's what I saw here.